[DOC-5572] Document CPU exhaustion scenario and workaround when SCRAM Authentication is enabled (#15254)
cockroachdb/docs: v22.2/security-reference/scram-authentication.md

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

### Migrate existing users/roles from cleartext passwords to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication

#### Eventual migration

It is possible to automatically convert the records for previously created users from cleartext passwords to SCRAM-compatible hash encodings. This will cause CockroachDB to use SCRAM authentication when client apps connect to CockroachDB, provided that the cluster's authentication configuration has also been set to accept SCRAM-SHA-256.

To convert existing users to SCRAM-SHA-256, enable the `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` cluster setting. When this setting is enabled, the conversion occurs the first time a client app connects with the previously defined password. During that first connection, the previous mechanism will be used to establish the connection, and then CockroachDB will re-encode the password using the SCRAM algorithm. Subsequent connections will then use the SCRAM handshake for authentication.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}

> In CockroachDB v22.x and above, the `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` cluster setting is enabled by default. Because `user_login.password_encryption` also defaults to `scram-sha-256`, this means that by default, any user who still uses cleartext passwords will be migrated to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication. To prevent this automatic migration, set `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` to `false` before upgrading to CockroachDB v22.x.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In CockroachDB v22.x and above, the `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` [cluster setting](cluster-settings.html) is enabled by default. Because `user_login.password_encryption` also defaults to `scram-sha-256`, this means that by default, any user who still uses cleartext passwords will be migrated to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication. To prevent this automatic migration, set `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` to `false` before upgrading to CockroachDB v22.x.
```

- Handle cleartext credentials securely
- Configure your cluster settings
- Manage users with pre-hashed passwords

### Migrate existing users/roles from cleartext passwords to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication

If a cluster had previously allowed cleartext password authentication (i.e., any cluster that began on a version prior to v22.1), you must carefully migrate to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication in the following phases:

1. Instead of creating and rotating user passwords by passing cleartext passwords into SQL statements, as described [previously](#enable-scram-sha-256-authentication-for-new-users-roles), you must instead generate CockroachDB/PostgreSQL-formatted SCRAM-SHA-256 hashes and enter those directly into the client, as described in the [following section](#manage-users-with-pre-hashed-passwords).
2. You must block clients from sending cleartext passwords to CockroachDB during authentication by [customizing your cluster's authentication configuration](#configure-your-cluster-settings-for-strict-credential-isolation) so that only the `scram-sha-256` and `cert-scram-sha-256` methods, and neither `password` nor `cert-password`, are allowed.

> 3. After steps (1) and (2) are complete, you must update any previously created passwords with externally generated SCRAM-SHA-256 hashes, and continue to generate your own hashes for all user creation and password update operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. After steps 1 and 2 are complete, you must update any previously created passwords with externally generated SCRAM-SHA-256 hashes, and continue to generate your own hashes for all user creation and password update operations.
```

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
In CockroachDB v22.x and above, the `server.user_login.upgrade_bcrypt_stored_passwords_to_scram.enabled` cluster setting is enabled by default. Because `user_login.password_encryption` also defaults to `scram-sha-256`, this means that by default, any user who still uses cleartext passwords will be migrated to SCRAM-SHA-256 authentication. Refer to [Eventual migration](#eventual-migration).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> Note the importance of rotating passwords twice, both in steps (1) and again in (3), with different passwords.  Step (1) ensures that clients at step (2) can continue to connect after non-SCRAM logins are blocked. However, between step (1) and step (2) it is still possible for CockroachDB to receive cleartext passwords from clients, and so the passwords used at step (1) are not fully protected yet. After step (2), CockroachDB will not learn cleartext passwords from clients any more; then after step 3 it will not know cleartext passwords at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note the importance of rotating passwords twice, in both steps 1 and 3, with different passwords. Step 1 ensures that clients at step 2 can continue to connect after non-SCRAM logins are blocked. However, between step 1 and step 2 it is still possible for CockroachDB to receive cleartext passwords from clients, and so the passwords used at step 1 are not fully protected yet. After step 2, CockroachDB will no longer learn cleartext passwords from clients; and after step 3 it will not know cleartext passwords at all.
```
